Tribes gathering

Tribes: gathering is a multiplayer game where players try to survive and thrive as tribe
and improve their position in it. As the players help the tribe overcome various challenges they contribute to the
unique story of their tribe.

While many other society-building games focus on technological, infrastructural and/or character building, the main theme
of this game is the exploring of social roles, social standing and emergent social behaviour inside a community of individuals.

Main concepts, roughly in order of importance:


Actors
Individuals, or humans, in the tribe are characters played by a human player.  The belong to a tribe, and can work, gather and socialize during the game.

Gathering
The gathering is an event where the tribe members gather to one place. The gathering is a place to formalize social relationships,
roles and settle conflicts and other issues. These Rituals often consist of Issue settlement by vote.

The actors can suggest issues and rituals for the upcoming gathering. The type and number of issues in influenced by the actors' position in the tribe.
(TODO: How the prevent the gathering from having 10+ trivial issues to decide?)

    Example Issues and Rituals:

        The issues and rituals faced by the tribe can be divided into two groups:

        1. Rituals which influence the role of an individual in relation to the tribe
            * coming of age and/or naming
            * obtaining a role in the tribe (key positions and contesting for a position)
            * burial
            * exile
            * conflict settlement

        2. Rituals which influence the status of tribe in relation to the world.
            * Mandate raiding
            * Warpath ritual
            * Division ritual
            * Travel ritual

        3. Rituals which influence the shape of the tribe, god-rituals.


The Grind
The grind is the period between gatherings. During grind the players can fulfill their roles by working. They can also socialize
with other players to, for example, plan their work and the next gatherings.

    Working: During the Grind, the actors can travel to a place to work. By working the actors usually produce or refine resources.
    If there are multiple actors working in the same place, it can influence the outcome of the work (TODO: how?)

Story
Even the best Tribes and Lineages fall sometimes, either disbanding due to internal dissonance or be engulfed by stronger cultures.
What remains of them is stories. The game should formalize the journaling of the Tribe Story and Lineage stories.
TODO: Do these have an effect on other aspects, or are these simply metaphors for points.

Roles
Usually, in MMORPGs for instance, players are basically free to pursue the career they wish. The character development tree or available experience
might add constraints to the development of the character. In contrast, the limitations in tribesG arise from the fact that the role of tribe members
should be accepted by the tribe. Ultimately the roles are assigned by the gathering. For example, some roles might be free to take (a hunter for example),
but some roles might be limited in number (a shaman). If a player wishes to have a role which is already taken, he must take
the issue to the gathering. The acceptance of the role by the tribe is measured by _role approval_ -rating.
(TODO: Apprentices)

Example roles:

    Ruler (Big boss) aka leader, dictator, manager, champion, warlord:
    Leader is a person responsible for the tribes' survival in the physical world. He coordinates everyday efforts such as food gathering, hunting, diplomacy and defence.
    Rulers might need a special Item of significance.

        - A Ruler can create objectives, which actors with suitable positions try to fulfill. If objectives are met, the actor(s) who
        completed the objective and the leader who created the objective are rewarded. Objectives which no one even tries to complete
        could result in some form of punishment for the leader.

        - The Ruler can suggest specialty Issues(TODO: such as...)

    Spiritual leader aka shaman, oracle, healer, enchanter, alchemist:
    Whereas the ruler is concerned with physical matters, a spiritual leader is responsible for morale, storytelling
    and spiritual direction. Shaman might need a special Item of significance.

        - The Shaman has the power and responsibility to orchestrate Gatherings. He can, for example, decide on order of issues and time
        for each issue resolvement.

        - The Shaman can suggest speciality issues such as

        - The Shaman can write down tribes' story, as cave paintings etc. (TODO: What effect does this have, the story should have some integral part of the game)

    Gatherer aka scrounger, berry-picker etc: Gatherer is the most basic food producer. This role needs no previous experience or other approvement. The gatherer
    goes out of the camp to gather edible plants and berries. Even later in more advanced tribes, the gatherer might be needed
    to gather special materials such as medicinal herbs.

    Hunter aka trapper aka ranger: is a food producer, who hunts edible animals

    Midwife

    soldier


Heritability and Lineage
Player characters can be born, and they can die. Death is permanent. However, the characters have a chance for immortality - their children. Actors can
have kids with other members of the tribe. When an actor dies, the player can choose to continue playing as a maturing child, thus building an ancestry. The ancestry
of the PC has effect on his social standing and role performance. (TODO: Think about this. recessive genes? physical appearance? Can anyone continue a lineage,
or only the players of the ancestry - gods?)

Children are born from the bonding of two actors (different sex). Players can affect the bonding, but they cannot directly affect when
children are born. This might be affected by factors such as available food,shelter and marriage ritual, however.

Children are a common possession of the tribe. If an actor dies, he can choose to start a new character if there are available rituals.
If he has descendants, he can choose to play as one.

Lineage can be visualized by a family tree.


Places
Game events, such as hunting, sleeping, and other everyday activities take place in a physical world. Instead of trying to strive
for real world scale and absolute realism, the game should emphasis the social and functional view on world. This could mean for example,
that hunting, gathering etc could take place in "the forest near the camp". The places of social and livelihood significance are called "Places" in this document.
TODO: In some game implementations it could even be possible for the places to be named after player actions,
ie. if players hunt somewhere, it becomes a hunting ground.


Metaphors for Session Events:
Being a multiplayer game with emphasis on emergent story and family lineage building, a single game (storyline) will probably span many gaming session.
To enhance immersion, session states and meta-actions such as timeouts, kickbans, logins and logouts should be translated into
game character action, for example, falling ill, exile, waking up, falling asleep ang going on mission

Exile
The gathering can choose to banish a character from the tribe. This translates to kickban. The character leaves and the player cannot
continue this ancestry anymore. This fate is worse than death.

Social effects and symbols
TODO:

Artistic guidelines:
Regardless of how the game is finally implemented, the art should, instead of striving for absolute realism, try
to capture the symbolic quality of the tribal social experience we humans, as a society, build around us. It could
borrow concepts from the Expressionism movement, psychedelic arts etc. It should leave things open for imagination and impressions.

Example influences:
King of Dragon Pass
Comics
Expressionism
Symbolism
Giger

(TODO: Someone who knows about this stuff should think about this. Anyway, the artistic style is heavily influenced by implementation style)


Major design decisions:

- How the grind is implemented

-If and how these issues should be modelled:
*Individual relations
*Relations of an individual within the tribe

-How to make the players feel they and/or their tribe is making progress?



Gameplay story 1, The First gathering:

Abraham, Bill, Carol, Dick and Emily stare at each other warily. Outside it's storming - thunder rumbles in the distance and
rain is pouring at constant rate. Bill, a Northerner, clutches his spear with the balanced grip of a trained warrior.
Dick is rubbing his bruised, bearded chin. The bruise is fresh, a reminder from a punch thrown by Carol just moments earlier.
Maybe it was well-deserved. After all, it was Dick who tried to take her tools, thinking they had been deserted.

The situation was dangerous. Each of them had taken shelter from the storm in the same cave, falsely thinking it had been abandonded.
In the same confined space, they are a definite danger to each other. Finally Emily gathers enough courage to speak:

- "We have to cooperate. You all know we cannot make it on our own. This land is too inhospitable. We would starve. "
- "Not to mention the wolves", adds Abraham. Almost on cue, the howl which had paused for a moment begins again.
- "Deershit", cries Dick, starting to walk toward the exit. Just he reaches the cave opening, lightning strikes to a tree near
the exit, illuminating even the farthest reaches of the cave. Everyone twitches. Being nearest to the tree, Dick falls to the ground,
shaking from pure terror. The tree struck by lightning catches fire.

- "I don't want to work with you either", says Carol, staring at trembling Dick. "But we just might need your hunting prowess".
- "And you Carol can cook and gather edible plants, in the beginning at least", says Bill. "I know hunting well enough too,
although my weapon skills are being wasted on hunting animals. I can help Dick with hunting and not thinking
about leaving us too soon".

The tree outside continues burning, defying the pouring rain.  Emily does not pay attention to the others, instead
staring at the tree, her expression feverish:

- "Truly this is a divination from the gods, a fortuitous omen for our future."
- "I don't know", answers old Abraham warily. "This could also be a sign of disaster."

Emily glances at Abraham but turns his gaze quickly back to the blazing trunk.

- "It can't be. The gods have granted us fire. It is our duty to preserve it and the story of this gathering".

She goes out and picks up burning branch from below the tree, returns inside and briskly walks to the back wall of the cave. With
the charred, still flaming stick she quietly draws five shapes crudely resembling humans. Three men and two women around
a burning tree. She turns back to Abraham:

- "And it's your duty now to bring us enough wood to feed the fire - firewood. Otherwise the favor of gods is lost and we are sure to fall".

Everyone looks at Emily, pondering this turn of events. A new tribe. New roles. Uncertain future. New Existence.

- "Tribe Burning Tree", whispers Dick audibly, still visibly shaken from the the near-miss lightning strike.
No one contests him, accepting the name of the tribe and their new roles as self-evident. For now.

Tomorrow the Grind would begin.


Gameplay story 2, The Grind:

Gameplay story 3, Newcomers:

Gameplay story 5, Conflicts arise:

Gameplay story 6, ... and her mothers' eyes:

Gameplay story 7, Neighbors:

Gameplay story 8, Warpath:

Gameplay story 9, The Story:

-------------------------------------
Idea bin:

TODO: How to make lesser roles interesting to play?

TODO: Should the tribe be able to adopt leader, duel, and other means instead of voting as their mode of issue solving?

TODO: Chat vs. abstract communication between players?

TODO: Rules testing via learning algorithms? Ie Ai for every members, then see what strategies emerge as winners

Dreamland? Dreamland could somehow be influenced by the gatherings of other tribes.

Themes:
Waterworld,
Mad Max,
Orcs!,
Earth's Children,
Space nomads

- Should the relationships between individual actors be modelled, or not? Currently I think not.


